---
title: "run"
source: "https://zorro-project.com/manual/en/run.htm"
---

# run

## run()

Main strategy function, written by the user. It is automatically started after clicking on the \[Train\], \[Test\], and \[Trade\] buttons. After the first run, it runs again at the end of every bar. This is continued until the end of the simulation or until \[Stop\] is hit. The **run** function initializes [sliders](141_slider.md) and sets up all needed indicators.

### Remarks:

*   If [StartDate](100_tradeUpdate.md) is set to **NOW**, an extra **run** is executed in live trading mode immediately after the lookback period, regardless whether the current bar has ended. If [LookBack](181_LookBack_UnstablePeriod.md) is 0, this extra run is the first run. After that extra run, the **run** function is furtherhin executed at the end of every bar.
*   For executing the **run** function several times within a candle, make the [BarPeriod](177_BarPeriod_TimeFrame.md) shorter and set up the candle width with [TimeFrame](177_BarPeriod_TimeFrame.md) so that several bars lie within a candle. Alternatively, use a [tick](089_tick_tock.md) function.
*   At the first call of the **run** function, **is(INITRUN)** and **is(FIRSTINITRUN)** are true. Since price and bar data are not yet set up at that initial run before the first [asset](013_Asset_Account_Lists.md) call, all price functions and indicators return **0**. 
*   If the script has both a **main** and a **run** function, the **main** function is executed before the first **run**, and can be used for initializing variables.
*   Local variables 'forget' their values after every call of the **run** function, but [static](aarray.md) and [global](aarray.md) variables keep their values.  !!  When **[AutoCompile](007_Training.md)** is set, static and global variables really keep their values until the script is compiled again, which happens only when it was modified or when the \[Edit\] button was clicked. Therefore make sure to initialize them at every cycle start ([is(INITRUN)](013_Asset_Account_Lists.md)) to their initial values when this is required.
*   For debugging the **run** function, use the [STEPWISE](018_TradeMode.md) flag and [watch](166_watch.md) commands. For starting debugging after the lookback period, use **if(!is(LOOKBACK)) set(STEPWISE);**.
*   For immediate script reaction on an incoming price quote, use the [tick](089_tick_tock.md) function. For repeated actions independent on bars or price quotes, use the [tock](089_tick_tock.md) function.

### Example:

```c
function run()
{
  vars SmoothPrice = series(LowPass(series(price()),100));

  if(valley(SmoothPrice)) enterLong();
  if(peak(SmoothPrice)) exitLong();
}
```

### See also:

[Workshop 4](tutorial_trade.md), [Bars and Candles](005_Bars_and_Candles.md), [Bar](180_Bar_NumBars.md), [BarPeriod](177_BarPeriod_TimeFrame.md), [tick](089_tick_tock.md), [tock](089_tick_tock.md), [user supplied functions](funclist.md)

[► latest version online](javascript:window.location.href = 'https://zorro-project.com/manual/en' + window.location.href.slice\(window.location.href.lastIndexOf\('/'\)\))